Add detailed tutorial for adding new evaluation benchmarks (#1827)
OpenDevin/OpenDevin: evaluation/TUTORIAL.md

You can read this for details, and also learn by example by looking at our existing evaluations:
- [swe_bench](swe_bench/)

## A quick walk-through of OpenDevin architecture

### Before everything begins

Please follow [this document](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/Development.md) to setup local develop environment for OpenDevin.

### Configuration file

OpenDevin uses `config.toml` to keep track of most configurations.

Here's an example configuration file you can use:

```toml
[core]
max_iterations = 100
cache_dir = "/tmp/cache"

# IMPORTANT: You should set these two paths to YOUR WORKSPACE directory,
# which will be mounted into Sandbox for agent to interact with!
# The OpenDevin agent will be able to read/write files whatever they like (even rm -rf)
# in this directory, so be careful!!
workspace_base = "/path/to/your/workspace"
workspace_mount_path = "/path/to/your/workspace"
# ==========================

sandbox_container_image = "ghcr.io/opendevin/sandbox:latest"
run_as_devin = true
sandbox_type = "ssh"
use_host_network = true
ssh_hostname = "localhost"
sandbox_timeout = 120

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enable_auto_lint = true

```

Author: ahh good point!

Typically, the agent returns `MessageAction` when it is confused about the task, and want to ask human for follow-up clarification, which is a good thing in real-world task, but not necessarily in evaluation. So in this example, we provide a dummy prompt to tell the agent "Please continue working on the task on whatever approach you think is suitable[...]".

If you see something like this, you can consider adding this to your evaluation pipeline as well.

### `sandbox`

Sandbox is a fully functioning docker container where the agent can perform all sorts of tasks, e.g., using bash, calling Python, install packages, and more. You can leave `sandbox` to `None` if you don't need to do anything special to pre-configure the `Sandbox`.

> In SWE-Bench, we need to copy the proper repository directory to the workspace and activate the right python virtual environment before the agent can start performing the task, so we actually defined a custom [`SWEBenchSSHBox`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/7ca560471bd262f22513f3863995d0a8e6121c07/evaluation/swe_bench/swe_env_box.py#L12-L118) that inherit from the default sandbox [`SSHBox`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/opendevin/runtime/docker/ssh_box.py#L188) and handles all these initial setup. If you need to configure the `sandbox` for your evaluation, check `SWEBenchSSHBox` for a reference of implementation.

Reviewer: Fixing the path in case the ssh_box.py file gets updated/refactored in the future:

```suggestion
In SWE-Bench, we need to copy the proper repository directory to the workspace and activate the right python virtual environment before the agent can start performing the task, so we actually defined a custom [`SWEBenchSSHBox`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/7ca560471bd262f22513f3863995d0a8e6121c07/evaluation/swe_bench/swe_env_box.py#L12-L118) that inherit from the default sandbox [`SSHBox`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/7ca560471bd262f22513f3863995d0a8e6121c07/opendevin/runtime/docker/ssh_box.py#L188) and handles all these initial setup. If you need to configure the `sandbox` for your evaluation, check `SWEBenchSSHBox` for a reference of implementation.
```

## How to put together an evaluation script?

> Now we have know how to start running the agent end-to-end, and how `fake_user_response_fn` and `sandbox` works. We will walk through a piece of dummy code (simplified version of SWE-Bench's [`run_infer.py`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/evaluation/swe_bench/run_infer.py)) that outline the general workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we know how to start running the agent end-to-end, and how `fake_user_response_fn` and `sandbox` work. We will walk through a piece of dummy code (simplified version of SWE-Bench's [`run_infer.py`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/evaluation/swe_bench/run_infer.py)) that outline the general workflow:
```

# Tutorial: How to add a New Evaluation Benchmark to OpenDevin

> This tutorial provides a general guide on how to integrate your own evaluation benchmark into the OpenDevin framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial provides a general guide on how to integrate your own evaluation benchmark into the OpenDevin framework.

You can read this for details, and also learn by example by looking at our existing evaluations:
- [swe_bench](swe_bench/)
```

## A quick walk-through of OpenDevin architecture

### Before everything begins

Please follow [this document](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/Development.md) to setup local develop environment for OpenDevin.

### Configuration file

OpenDevin uses `config.toml` to keep track of most configurations.

Here's an example configuration file you can use:

```toml
[core]
max_iterations = 100
cache_dir = "/tmp/cache"

# IMPORTANT: You should set these two paths to YOUR WORKSPACE directory,
# which will be mounted into Sandbox for agent to interact with!
# The OpenDevin agent will be able to read/write files whatever they like (even rm -rf)
# in this directory, so be careful!!

> workspace_base = "/home/xingyaow/OpenDevin-dev/workspace"
> workspace_mount_path = "/home/xingyaow/OpenDevin-dev/workspace"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
workspace_base = "/path/to/your/workspace"
workspace_mount_path = "/path/to/your/workspace"
```

# ==========================

sandbox_container_image = "ghcr.io/opendevin/sandbox:latest"
run_as_devin = true
sandbox_type = "ssh"
use_host_network = true
ssh_hostname = "localhost"
sandbox_timeout = 120

[llm]

> model = "gpt-4o-2024-05-13"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# IMPORTANT: add your API key here, and set the model to the one you want to evaluate
model = "gpt-4o-2024-05-13"
```

api_key = "sk-XXX"
```

> ### How do OpenDevin solves a task?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How to use OpenDevin programmatically
```

> In this section, for the purpose of building an evaluation task, we omit details on the frontend and backend that mostly contains logic for user interface, and mainly focus on a function `main` (i.e., a command line interface) that allows you to complete a task end-to-end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, for the purpose of building an evaluation task, we don't use the standard OpenDevin interface, but rather run OpenDevin programmatically.
```

> For example, *without any frontend/backend server*, you can run ([setup the environment first](#before-everything-begins) if you haven't) the following to get a simple task solved (with max number of 10 iterations, `CodeActAgent` as the agent, and `gpt-4o-2024-05-13` as the LLM):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can run the following, which performs the specified task `-t`, with a particular model `-m` and agent `-c`, for a maximum number of iterations `-i`:
```

```bash
poetry run python ./opendevin/core/main.py \
        -i 10 \
        -t "Write me a bash script that print hello world." \
        -c CodeActAgent \
        -m gpt-4o-2024-05-13
```

After running the script, you will observe the following:

![](./static/example_task_1.png)

> You can see the agent uses bash to write a script, making it executable, and then tested it by running it to make sure it is working.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see the agent uses bash to write a script, makes it executable, and then tests it by running it to make sure it is working.
```

## What is "Request user input"?

> At the end of the above screenshot, OpenDevin actually requests user inputs when it think it finishes the task. There's multiple motivation for this design:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At the end of the above screenshot, OpenDevin actually requests user inputs when it think it finishes the task. There are multiple motivations for this design:
```

> ## What is "Request user input"?
> 
> At the end of the above screenshot, OpenDevin actually requests user inputs when it think it finishes the task. There are multiple motivations for this design:
> 
> 1. If the agent did something wrong, the user can follow-up with language feedback to correct it.
> 
> 2. If the agent did something good, the user may want to follow-up with additional problem for it to solve.
> 
> 3. If the agent completes the user's task -- in a realistic setting, the user might just turn off OpenDevin application and work on something else. User could also type in "/exit" to gracefully shutdown the OpenDevin agent.
> 
> However, this will actually causes issues in evaluation, since most evaluation don't actually assume additional user input.
> 
> To fix this, we introduce the functionality of `fake_user_response_fn` in the `main` fucntion. Check the section below for more details!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the end of the above screenshot, OpenDevin actually requests user inputs when it think it finishes the task. This will cause issues in evaluation, since most evaluation don't assume additional user input. To fix this, we introduce the functionality of `fake_user_response_fn` in the `main` function, which we describe in the next section.
```

> ## How does `main` work?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The `main` function
```

> The signature of `main` (in file [[`opendevin/core/main.py`](../opendevin/core/main.py)]):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The signature of `main` (in file [[`opendevin/core/main.py`](../opendevin/core/main.py)]) is as follows:
```

```python
async def main(
    task_str: str = '',
    exit_on_message: bool = False,
    fake_user_response_fn: Optional[Callable[[Optional[State]], str]] = None,
    sandbox: Optional[Sandbox] = None,
) -> Optional[State]:
```

- `task_str`: The task instruction to run. In the above example, it is "Write me a bash script that print hello world."

> - `exit_on_message`: quit if agent asks for a message from user (optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `exit_on_message`: whether to quit if the agent asks for a message from user
```

            )
    return msg
```

It receives a `State`, which is defined in [`opendevin/controller/state/state.py`](../opendevin/controller/state/state.py). We are mainly using `state.history` here, which is the most important field of data. You can imagine it is being a more structured version of OpenAI's chat completion [messages](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation/chat-completions-api).

`history: list[tuple[Action, Observation]] = field(default_factory=list)` is a list of (action, observation) tuple. All the actions are defined at [`opendevin/events/action`](../opendevin/events/action) and observations are defined at [`opendevin/events/observation`](../opendevin/events/action).

The agent can emit different actions like `CmdRunAction`  (`opendevin/events/action/commands.py`) to execute bash commands and receive `CmdOutputObservation` (`opendevin/events/observation/commands.py`), `IPythonRunCellAction` to receive `IPythonRunCellObservation`, `BrowseInteractiveAction` (`opendevin/events/action/browse.py`) to browse the web and receive `BrowserOutputObservation` (`opendevin/events/observation/browse.py`).

> The action we used in this example is actually `MessageAction` (`opendevin/events/action/message.py`), which acutally denotes a message from either `agent` or `user`. In the [CodeAct agent example](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/7ca560471bd262f22513f3863995d0a8e6121c07/agenthub/codeact_agent/codeact_agent.py#L239-L273), an agent is considered to emit a `MessageAction` when it does not trigger a `CmdRunAction`, `IPythonRunCellAction`, and/or `BrowseInteractiveAction`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The action we used in this example is `MessageAction` (`opendevin/events/action/message.py`), which actually denotes a message from either `agent` or `user`. In the [CodeAct agent example](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/7ca560471bd262f22513f3863995d0a8e6121c07/agenthub/codeact_agent/codeact_agent.py#L239-L273), an agent is considered to emit a `MessageAction` when it does not trigger a `CmdRunAction`, `IPythonRunCellAction`, and/or `BrowseInteractiveAction`.
```

If you see something like this, you can consider adding this to your evaluation pipeline as well.

### `sandbox`

Sandbox is a fully functioning docker container where the agent can perform all sorts of tasks, e.g., using bash, calling Python, install packages, and more. You can leave `sandbox` to `None` if you don't need to do anything special to pre-configure the `Sandbox`.

In SWE-Bench, we need to copy the proper repository directory to the workspace and activate the right python virtual environment before the agent can start performing the task, so we actually defined a custom [`SWEBenchSSHBox`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/7ca560471bd262f22513f3863995d0a8e6121c07/evaluation/swe_bench/swe_env_box.py#L12-L118) that inherit from the default sandbox [`SSHBox`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/opendevin/runtime/docker/ssh_box.py#L188) and handles all these initial setup. If you need to configure the `sandbox` for your evaluation, check `SWEBenchSSHBox` for a reference of implementation.

> ## How to put together an evaluation scripts?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## How to put together an evaluation script?
```

        json.dump(metadata, f)

    # LIMIT EVALUATION
    eval_n_limit = args.eval_n_limit
    if eval_n_limit:
        swe_bench_tests = swe_bench_tests.head(eval_n_limit)
        logger.info(f'Limiting evaluation to first {eval_n_limit} instances.')

    # OUTPUT FILE
    output_file = os.path.join(eval_output_dir, 'output.jsonl')
    logger.info(f'Writing evaluation output to {output_file}')
    finished_instance_ids = set()
    if os.path.exists(output_file):
        with open(output_file, 'r') as f:
            for line in f:
                data = json.loads(line)
                finished_instance_ids.add(data['instance_id'])
        logger.warning(
            f'Output file {output_file} already exists. Loaded {len(finished_instance_ids)} finished instances.'
        )
    output_fp = open(output_file, 'a')

    logger.info(
        f'Evaluation started with Agent {agent_class}, model {model_name}, max iterations {max_iterations}.'
    )

    # =============================================
    # filter out finished instances
    new_swe_bench_tests = []
    for idx, instance in swe_bench_tests.iterrows():
        if instance.instance_id in finished_instance_ids:

>             logger.info(
>                 f'Skipping instance {instance.instance_id} as it is already finished.'
>             )
>             continue
>         new_swe_bench_tests.append(instance)
> 
>     swe_bench_tests = pd.DataFrame(new_swe_bench_tests)
>     logger.info(
>         f'Finished instances: {len(finished_instance_ids)}, Remaining instances: {len(swe_bench_tests)}'
>     )
>     # =============================================
> 
>     pbar = tqdm(total=len(swe_bench_tests))
> 
>     # This function tracks the progress AND write the output to a JSONL file
>     def update_progress(future):
>         pbar.update(1)
>         output = future.result()
>         pbar.set_description(f'Instance {output["instance_id"]}')
>         pbar.set_postfix_str(f'Test Result: {output["test_result"]["result"]}')
>         logger.info(
>             f'Finished evaluation for instance {output["instance_id"]}: {output["test_result"]["result"]}'
>         )
>         output_fp.write(json.dumps(output) + '\n')
>         output_fp.flush()
> 
>     # This sets the multi-processing
>     num_workers = args.eval_num_workers
>     logger.info(f'Using {num_workers} workers for evaluation.')
> 
>     # This is SWE-Bench specific - CodeActAgent don't requires mounted workspace to work
>     skip_workspace_mount = agent_class == 'CodeActAgent'
>     logger.info(f'Skipping workspace mount: {skip_workspace_mount}')
> 
>     try:
>         with ProcessPoolExecutor(num_workers) as executor:
>             futures = []
>             # This is how we perform multi-processing
>             for row_idx, instance in swe_bench_tests.iterrows():
>                 future = executor.submit(
>                     process_instance,
>                     instance,
>                     agent_class,
>                     metadata,
>                     skip_workspace_mount,
>                     reset_logger=bool(num_workers > 1),
>                 )
>                 future.add_done_callback(update_progress)
>                 futures.append(future)
> 
>             # Wait for all futures to complete
>             for future in futures:
>                 future.result()
>     except KeyboardInterrupt:
>         print('KeyboardInterrupt received. Cleaning up...')
>         cleanup()
> 
>     output_fp.close()
>     logger.info('Evaluation finished.')
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see the [swe_bench/run_infer.py](swe_bench/run_infer.py) file for an example.
```

When you fully understand the `run_infer.py`, you can be ready to actually starting the evaluation!

## Run the evaluation!

Similar to SWE-Bench's [`run_infer.sh`](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/evaluation/swe_bench/scripts/run_infer.sh), you can write your script similarily:

> ```bash
> #!/bin/bash
> 
> AGENT=CodeActAgent
> # IMPORTANT: Because Agent's prompt changes fairly often in the rapidly evolving codebase of OpenDevin
> # We need to track the version of Agent in the evaluation to make sure results are comparable
> AGENT_VERSION=v$(python3 -c "from agenthub.codeact_agent import CodeActAgent; print(CodeActAgent.VERSION)")
> MODEL_CONFIG=$1
> 
> echo "AGENT: $AGENT"
> echo "AGENT_VERSION: $AGENT_VERSION"
> echo "MODEL_CONFIG: $MODEL_CONFIG"
> 
> # You should add $MODEL_CONFIG in your `config.toml`
> 
> poetry run python3 evaluation/swe_bench/run_infer.py \
>   --agent-cls $AGENT \
>   --llm-config $MODEL_CONFIG \
>   --max-iterations 50 \
>   --max-chars 10000000 \
>   --eval-num-workers 8 \
>   --eval-note $AGENT_VERSION
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

You can start the evaluation by running:

> ```bash
> ./run_infer.sh eval_gpt4_1106_preview
> ```
> 
> Where `eval_gpt4_1106_preview` is the model config you defined on the `config.toml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
./run_infer.sh eval_gpt_4o_2024_05_13
```

Where `eval_gpt_4o_2024_05_13` is the model config you defined on the `config.toml`.
```
